There are a number of alternatives to React. Not surprising since it's associated with the controversial giant Meta/Facebook. Vue JS is a well-known open-source competitor. This framework is, "Mainly targeted to develop single-page applications and their user interfaces."1 It's user-friendly design and small library size makes it good for junior developers.1 

Inferno JS is another option. It's library is similar to React and is performance-oriented. Spec India touts Inferno has, "The fastest runtime performance and is good at the isomorphic rendering of real-time data views."1

Last on the list, but far from the last tool out there is Xamarin, which is good for Apple, Android and Windows apps.1 Interesting because it's powered by Microsoft.1 It is a, "Cross-platform implementation of the Common Language Specifications or Common Language Infrastructure (CLI)."1 Unlike React and Inferno, Xamarin is written in C#.1 Combining Xamarin with Visual Studio makes it easy for beginners to create apps.1

Another tool devs can use to simplify their processes is Webpack. In the simplest terms, it is a module bundler.2 Instead of having one huge file of assets or having a bunch of smaller files all linked with <script> tags in the correct order or concatenating all our files into one <script> tag, use Webpack. It manages dependencies and imports in ES6 and nodeJS.2 Medium gives a high-level overview so well, I can only quote it.

"You specify an entry file in the Webpack configuration, and the process starts from there. Webpack goes through the dependencies of each file recursively, and resolves every dependency until the traversal has completed. The resolver first verifies if the respective files for all the dependencies are present. If they are, it transforms every file in a module, and creates a dependency graph of all the modules. Then it bundles all of this in one file (specified as the ‘output’ file in the configuration). It maintains a registry of all the modules, so they can be correctly called/executed whenever they are required."2

Despite students frequently having trouble installing it, convenience and flexibility are the biggest draws towards Webpack. You also have control over how to each the asset. It also has style benefits, such as CSS Modules.2

While you can do everything the vanilla way if you choose, adding tools like React or its alternatives and Webpack will be worth your time. You'll be on your way to becoming a modern, efficient front-end developer.





Sources

1https://www.spec-india.com/blog/react-alternatives

2 https://medium.com/js-imaginea/webpack-why-and-what-4948433cc2d3#:~:text=Webpack%20gives%20you%20control%20over,issues%20of%20standard%20CSS%20styling.